hi this is Dr Carl goldkamp a few things
I have to say what is we personally are
involved both as a lifestyle the
ketogenic diet but also through my 16
years of clinical practice of what is
effective what do people need to take
sometimes all the time to support your
ketogenic diet you'll get bits and
pieces of this ongoing week after week
it's important to be comprehensive in
one way is simple and one way it's a
little bit complicated
hi this is Dr goldkamp and welcome back
to another episode of the keto
naturopath
well I need to prepare you for some
I guess in certain circles they say this
is bit techy this is a bit nerdy this is
a bit over detailed
but
um it is what it is here's what we're
gonna do
in about a month a little less than a
month I'll be interviewing Tom Siegfried
and he's a PhD
up at Boston College and he is in my on
my in my view and on my list he's one of
the two people in the last 50 years that
has medically turned the world on his
head and so specifically in the area of
cancer
uh he did this primarily
in the last oh 15 years if not the last
20 years and we'll be interviewing him
on on not only his theories of cancer
what causes cancer well more about how
to treat cancer is what we're going to
focus on but it has application in terms
of a cause and
preventing cancer as well but more
importantly as as I've always said in a
number of these conference then number
of these uh calls these discussions
we're having is that you have to be able
to ask yourself what does this have to
do with the ketogenic diet
and I want to reinforce those points
that line so you get something out of
what we're going to talk about because
it is going to get a little bit
Technical and I'm going to try to
generalize things of it uh aspects of
this so it can be usable to you because
my Approach has always been even with
patience regardless of why they came in
is that I'm in essence forcing them to
learn a little more I'm not just going
to tell them what to do you're going to
eat this banana you're going to eat this
particular steak you're going to eat
that and this is how much you can eat
it's like I'll do a little bit of that
but they have to I would give them
references of things to read about
you know unless they want me to pay me
on an hourly basis
to dispense this information in front of
them they're going to have to take it
upon themselves and it's a sign of
Health to develop your own source of
information and your own ability to do
some critical thinking and those are the
issues that those are the the principles
I'm supporting here by this podcast okay
so I came into being very interested in
the ketogenic diet not just because I'm
a naturopathic doctor frankly this
should have dawned on me 20 years
earlier than it did but it did not and
it came into my life even though I had
seen Tom Tom Siegfried present
on cancer and his application of the
ketogenic diet in a context of things
that he does
but I kind of thought this is one sort
of over my head I don't see these kind
of patients and the amount of time it's
going to spend to really know what he's
talking about and to be able to think
that I'm going to apply or be
instrumental in applying this to
patients that come through my door into
our Clinic
was very remote so it just wasn't
something I was going to spend my time
doing so then how did I change my mind
what came into my life that made me
think about well you know actually his
work is very very important you know and
actually he has and the word is a little
bit overused he has created a paradigm
shift or renewed as a Renaissance of a
paradigm shift
that might be a tad redundant
in terms of rethinking how cancer grows
and how to treat cancer so why did I
come into it well my wife had
menangioma that had to be removed and
subsequently we learned about the
ketogenic diet we think that's kept her
cancer from never coming back
the thing is you can't disprove a
negative so we're living with that
thought and I was very sick given severe
ulcerated colitis and Crohn's which I
had never had in my life and I came into
there's a podcast in my story back there
so for those two personal health reasons
drove me to look into the ketogenic diet
I went to conferences over the last
three or four years medical conferences
of Florida and well throughout the East
Coast for the most part
and uh saw Tom present twice again
talk to him briefly to thank him for his
work and so now I actually think his
work is vital and
I am where I am and he is where he is
and it's going to be such a privilege to
talk to him however
the interviews that he has given to
people
and the people he works with he works
with them so intensely that
on a given podcast
there's so many layers to his
understanding and his application of
calorie restricted ketogenic diet for
cancer and along with other things
that I decided to designate two podcasts
to some of the topics that he will be
bringing up
so when you listen to him you will not
say oh this is over my head just what I
did 20 years ago whenever it was 15
years ago when I first heard him that oh
this is over my head and I'll never have
a reason to understand this and by the
way my reasons for getting involved in
ketogenic diet have nothing to do with
cancer
that may well be your case but I think
if you know why
ketosis or the ketogenic diet is
critical
for cancer
and you could say well it's epilepsy as
well we've talked about that and we've
interviewed
Beth a long time ago about epilepsy
works for the Charlie Foundation
they say well I'm not epileptic and I
don't have cancer why am I listening to
this I think those are the canaries in
the mine shaft as they say it's because
ketogenic diet is critically important
for these particular contexts for these
particular
situations that that's the piece of
information we can bring home to
ourselves and saying is those rare
specific intense situations that really
is a deliverable universal truth that we
can bring into our lives we don't have
to live as a cancer patient we don't
have to live as a child or an adult with
epilepsy but you have to ask and we
talked about fasting before that back
when we did the history and evolution of
fasting and the ketogenic diet which are
strongly related
and then later we talked about fasting
the fasting mimicking diet which is a
variation or a ketogenic diet per my
view
that you know why are all these things
so effective for these situations and
we're talking about them now is because
it's now we have the means to go deeper
in understanding how they work
and that's where all the technology of
course
and
now everybody can basically do this from
their own home you don't have to go to a
special place to get this done this is
you
bootstrapping yourself up with some help
like this podcast and other podcasts are
talking about it as well so the point
was these extreme situations like cancer
and epilepsy
are valuable to know about so back to
the interview coming up with Tom
Siegfried some contexts some things we
want to talk about
through at least two podcasts are going
to be Otto Warburg
Tom refers to him and the Warburg effect
and the Warburg hypothesis what does
that have to do with anything it's about
cancer so we're going to go into that so
you'll understand that without being
thrown understand when you listen to a
talk if there's too many unknowns people
stop listening they stop receiving the
information stop being able to
understand where the useful information
is we're going to talk about that
we're going to talk about the difference
between Cancer as a metabolic disease
and what they call the somatic mutation
theory of cancer
you don't need to know what that is now
we'll get into it I don't think in this
podcast but later
why is a calorie restricted ketogenic
diet used
and what is the glucose Ketone index
some of you have been listening before
we talked about that on fasting and we
went through our group fasting together
we found that very effective
how targeting gene mutations is only
targeting Downstream effects of cancer
meaning it's really not the best place
to focus your energy but that's where
our current model is we'll get into that
respiration versus fermentation
I'm probably already lost you on both of
those we'll get into that because those
are two words you really need to have a
a Layman's handle on
and to say okay respiration he means
this fermentation he means that I know
some of you already have an idea but I
think it's it's often confusing when you
hear it into conversation of cancer
you get distracted trying to figure that
out
the concept and this is part of his
hypothesis his being Tom's hypothesis
and strategy he's worked on that's not
being implemented worldwide not in the
United States given our Medical
infrastructure and standard of care
is what is the concept of what they call
Press pulse
both evolutionarily which is where Tom
borrowed this talk about that and then
how he applies that into the cancer
strategy
cancers in general
and why it's why it's more important to
Target what is a common aspect in all
cancers as opposed to their unique
differences in third with when when you
hear people saying oh they they didn't
um a genotype on that type of cancer
that's considered a secondary effect
that the genes that pop out and make it
very cancer specific came because it was
already a metabolic problem we'll get
into that if that was a little bit over
your head it won't be okay so take my
word for it so today what I want to
start with is I want to start with
talking about odd Warburg I think one of
the one of the things is
um half my family relations are German
and my dad's first name was Otto so
that's neat
but out of Warburg uh
was came from that era of really
interesting thinkers or the late 1800s
and early 1900s that's when as you
remember hearing before that's when
fasting was all a rage late 1900s
certainly it's goes back decades before
that but it became the thing fasting in
the late 19 in the 19 1890s and up until
the Advent of the ketogenic diet which
was arguably 1921 and 1924 and then
insulin coming out and being publicly
available in 1924
so there's a period of about 30 years in
which a lot of discoveries a lot of
vitamins was the first time vitamins
were discovered
Warburg had
a part to play in that as well
Okay so
how to Warburg lives from the 1883 and
he died in 1970 he lived through World
War one and and through World War II so
just just being alive on Earth and in
Germany during those two Wars he was a
soldier in one in the first and and a
academic in the second
and he won the Nobel Prize in 1931.
and he was nominated for Nobel Prize
about 47 times from what I've heard and
what I've read
so he was
curious well-developed he developed a
lab
in Germany uh full of famous people like
Krebs
and others that went on to create their
own Fame so what he's known about and
I'm going to link this to cancer instead
of giving you a biography of
Otto Warburg
is that the two references you're going
to hear is the Warburg effect and the
Warburg hypothesis
okay
so it goes like this
that
per his research
and here is the first one to say you
know cancer is not normal
in a sense that it doesn't have a normal
metabolism meaning where it gets its
fuel its energy is not like the rest of
the body
so as you and I both know we need to
breathe oxygen in order to live we stop
breathing oxygen air which oxygen is in
air
is that we would eventually suffocate
and die so we need oxygen that's the
point
so chemical reactions that need oxygen
in essence
are
generally collected collectively
referred to as respiration I'm going to
throw that out there
respiration so C when when somebody says
it'll buy respiration meaning that's
with oxygen oxygen is needed for that so
whatever that means so when you have
your muscles your muscles and working
out and just to have life for your heart
and to burn I mean the free art for all
these things to to work in your body for
your metabolism to work body wide you
need oxygen
so
he was the first to acknowledged that
well that's not really the case
um cancer cells really don't need oxygen
and
and so how is that is it I'm not going
to get into the specifics but there is a
thing called glycolysis which is
um the breaking down of glucose that's
where it comes your lysis is breaking
down glucose
so is glucose so you're breaking down of
glucose it's a 10 step process so that's
called glycolysis start with glucose and
you break it down but none of those
steps involve oxygen so it's
considered a
fermentation pathway so you had oxygen
which is
respiration needs oxygen and you have
fermentation which doesn't need oxygen
so fermentation is considered a very
ancient pathway you know way back before
there was even oxygen on Earth
obviously there's things there's a lot
of this is hypothetical but a lot of it
makes sense and so as Evolution began
from a single cell
to multiple cells from prokaryotes to
eukaryotes there was the ability of
of you know oxygen was initially a toxic
gas in the world and so it took an
evolution to be able to deal with
oxygen
so the non-oxygen the existing way of
growing and creating energy was
um fermentation without oxygen breaking
down of glucose and sugars in general
s have
glucose is part of there but it's
breaking down all sugars without oxygen
so that's fermentation so what you got
to get out of that ancient pathway
existed before there was oxygen on Earth
we've actually kept it into our
metabolism it's within parts of our our
has ability in our mitochondria
as many of you learned in high school
you have
the uh you know with and without the
breaking down of ATP how you can make it
without oxygen you get very little in
the way of
uh energy ATP two atps without oxygen
and 36 with oxygen I'm going to keep it
very simple uh getting you confused in
all the different steps
but the reason people thought well how
could cancer survive on a very
inefficient
means of creating energy you know when
it's much more efficient to use oxygen
so it was kind of dismissed or forgotten
about for a while but he was the one
saying that no cancer is caused because
it is
it's a whole system that is dependent on
being able to burn glucose
and it grows very quickly of course and
there's a lot of other aspects of cancer
but the fact that it needs no oxygen
puts it in its own little class puts it
and it's kind of a protected world
so if you shut off the oxygen Cancer's
still good or if you should have the
oxygen for a lot of other things it's
not so good it won't survive
so
the Warburg hypothesis
was the idea that the the driver of
cancer
was inefficient
poor respiration caused by some sort of
insult and we'll say environmental
toxins I thought that in and that was
actually what he thought too
he was his studies were about the
understanding of what didn't cause
cancer but how cancer grew so that's why
it was the fermentation versus
respiration
as a
uh it wasn't a research it was his
belief that he thought cancer was caused
by environmental insults that is insults
to the mitochondria so what does that
come from the environment
and that's still pretty much the thought
today it comes from environmental toxins
and or poor nutrition but it's pretty
much the same thing as what you're
saying
okay and so that was that aspect of it
and what Tom was has taken into when he
talks about what going back to the
Warburg effect here the um Warburg is
that
he sort of resurrected this idea
that because cancer had a metabolism
based on glucose and not based on oxygen
right fermentation versus respiration
that that means that if we could shut
off the fuel the fermentable fuel
so what would the fermentable fuel be
the fermentable fuel would be glucose
the fermentable fuel would be sugar okay
so whether you're talking about fructose
sucrose or any of the other sugars we're
still all of that they're part of the
pathway
okay so then the theory becomes if we
can shut off
the glucose
then maybe we can shut down
the cancer because the cancer has a
predisposition to obviously needing
glucose just like we think we need
oxygen which we just mentioned that we
do if you should have oxygen to us we
would die so if we can shut off
glucose to the fermentable fuel to
cancer
the cancer will die or wither away
okay that's a big point
so what can do this now so where's this
ketogenic diet come in well one thing
about cancer cells is that they cannot
live on ketones they cannot live on free
fatty acids so that's not a direction to
go in for if you're a cancer cell cancer
cells you want sugar sugar sugar baby
you want sugar that's your fuel there's
no substitute there's no if ands or
maybes it's a primitive
it's it's a primitive
metabolic
ability
so it's a lower metabolic ability the
more sophisticated metabolic metabolism
is dependent on oxygen so if we can and
the body has the ability all other cells
nearly all other cells has the ability
to
work from make energy from ketones beta
hydroxybutyrate that we've talked about
many episodes
so well that's pretty neat so what does
that mean that means how do you get to
ketones obviously through the ketogenic
diet you get through fasting right so
fasting is pre-existed before ketogenic
diet
so now we're rich on we figured out how
to
you know feed our body on ketones
and not on glucose by the way our body
has its own abilities to make glucose so
just because you're not eating glucose
doesn't mean you're not
creating glucose
just like when we talk about diabetes
right
so but if we stop eating
glue if we stop eating glucose if we
start eat stop eating carbs that's a
severe step down in terms of available
glucose for cancer cells so they still
have a problem they're not we haven't
turned off the switch it's not that easy
there's a flip we just turned off
or glucose however the thinking is or
what else do we need to do to turn off
the glucose how do we stop the body from
making its own glucose so the the body
makes its glucose to glucagon and a
number of other things but it's from the
liver so how do we stop the liver from
making us glucose
well there are other agents they say you
can say chemical agents you can say
metformin would be one and if you're in
the naturopathic World you'd be thinking
about things like berberine
but you're trying to stop the other
avenues the other Pathways that create
glucose pretty straightforward so if we
can shut that off
and we can stop the intake the consuming
of of exogenous
glucose then we have a lock
on blocking
the glucose fuel to cancer cells so
that's a big layup so that's what the
ketogenic diet does so that's why
the component of Tom's
strategy of
cancer as a metabolic disease and that's
the name of his book he came out with in
2004 which is
about five inches thick and it has
really good illustrations and there's a
lot of individual stories that elaborate
and a lot of really interesting points
that I think most of us are really a joy
so
his implementation his inclusion of the
ketogenic diet was a calorie restricted
ketogenic diet so that means you're
always eating less it's a type of fast
you obviously can't go on forever but
there is fasting you're you're in a
ketogenic diet one so the idea your high
fat low carbs 100 protein and you're
pulling back on the number of overall
calories they're less than what you
ideally would have so that's a calorie
restricted ketogenic diet so that's that
part that has to be implemented
the other reason that has to be
implemented is because there are other
agents and other components of this
particular
a strategy for cancer that all
medications that many cancer patients
are on do affect your blood glucose
so even though they're meant to be maybe
chemotherapeutic
for some other aspect that is a side
effect that they may stimulate the body
to make glucose so the world's not
perfect drugs are not perfect and this
is one of them so
that's why the calorie restricted
ketogenic diet to get a lock on a
minimal production ideally no production
of glucose and therefore that's a major
fuel
to cancer
so the other aspect
in
understanding
not just Warburg so you have Otto
Warburg and he's the one that came up
with this this idea was brought forward
it's been discussed was dismissed
probably left left for
since the
1930s at 70 years nearly 70 years it was
forgotten or at least not brought to
light pretty much until Tom and a whole
interest in the ketogenic diet brought
it forward and so now you know Tomba to
the high art of what he's doing in terms
of cancer
that the if we could think that cancer
only depended on glucose what I've said
so far would be all you've had to do get
on a calorie restricted ketogenic diet
for whatever kind of cancer you have and
you'd be good that's still very
effective by the way
it's just that it's not everything you
could do
so if you had 100 people in a room and
they had let's say 100 prostate prostate
cancers 100 breast cancers 100 name your
cancer and you had people doing
calorie restricted ketogenic diet
some would do very well and some would
not do very well so why is that so it's
certainly not a a known we don't have
certain law we don't have a lot of human
studies at all so all these are mice
studies that's how we're getting this
information
because you can't experiment that much
with
with humans humans have to basically
experiment on themselves and say hey I
have cancer and this is what I'm going
to do I've done all the reading and
that's how you get these cases that's
how you get these anecdotal cases
and these therapies are offered overseas
we'll get to that problem when you talk
to Tom
okay well there's another fuel there's
another fermentable fuel now you know
what ferment means ferment means without
oxygen there's another fuel for cancer
cells that does not need oxygen that's
the last thing you need to know and you
kind of Wonder well is there a list of
fermentable fuels that cancer cells need
I know it's all right I block the
glucose and that took a lot of personal
effort and discipline and maybe even
needed a
team of support to do that well you got
that out of the way and that's a big
thing you got out of the way the second
fermentable fuel is called glutamine now
glutamine
is what they call a conditionally
essential amino acid meaning it is not
one of the eight essential amino acids
it's kind of a knife and why is it
called conditionally essential uh
conditionally essential
means that you can run yourself into
deficiencies of glutamine and in those
cases it would be essential
and glutamine is also the preferred fuel
for the small intestine and
um
for the gut you might say so it's a
preferred fuel it's what it needs so the
liver needs Branch change amino acids
the small intestine needs
um
it needs glutamine and large intestine
basically goes on
ketones
isn't that something so
you can't shut off glutamine completely
for long periods of time because you'll
be shutting off you'll have a problem
with your small intestine it's just not
going to be able to replenish yourself
and it will eventually die also
glutamine has a lot of independent roles
in your immune system by itself
so when you're sick flu cold
or let's say you had a skin burn you
know or a fire burn you your need for
glutamine goes up
well
two things one is you go well where do
we get glutamine do I what foods we get
glutamine glutamine is so abundant in
your body
I.E your muscles are an endless Reserve
that's why you can have
uh starving people still have enough
glutamine in their body to
fight off some illnesses and so on so
there's an endless reserve of glutamine
in the body primarilies from your
muscles okay
oh wait a minute then how's this going
to work how are you going to be able to
block glucose and glutamine well those
take other particular what they call
agents other particular
um
items I'll talk about later but
that is a separate topic and issue and
problem if you will however they're out
there and there's a number of
medications that are actually
off patent meaning they're cheap now
and they can be used but here's the
trick
if you now and I'm going to use the word
wrongly
I'll have to rethink my wording here I
was about to use the word suffocate
because suffocate means
you know deprive of oxygen and we just
said that cancer it depends on
fermentation of two fermentable fuels
glucose and glutamine so suffocate
doesn't really make any sense does it
but if you could block both if you could
guarantee and now you know you have a
lock at blocking glucose and a locket
blocking glutamine
you know you'll kiss that cancer goodbye
well that's true but now here's the
problem
if you can
suddenly shut down cancer and have a die
in a tracks wherever it is in your body
that's probably going to be a lot of
dead cancer cells floating around in
your body a lot of debris that has to be
cleaned up by your body
so it's not just and that isn't the
problem you get a toxic response that
overloads your immune system and you die
of the cleanup in essence
so you can't just shut off one and then
add shut off the other
you have to shut off one completely as
best you can so that's the calorie
restricted ketogenic diet
and to that you have to add moments
and so
um Tom has a
reference to his strategy which is
called the Press pulse a press is a
consistent
negative pressure so that would be the
calorie restricted ketogenic diet that
you've
the either if you're picturing yourself
as the cancer patient that you are on
right so that's a pressure you've now
just made ketones and there's no there's
no glucose available
and you might even be on Metformin so
there's really is no glucose available
or
or something similar
and now you can't go 100 all the time on
with blocking glutamine you have to do
intervals so those are the pulse pulses
you hit it every so often so 100 on all
the time with the ketones no glucose and
then you add moments of just blocking
the glutamine and so that will be that
will be very destructive
and your body will have and then you'll
stop doing it and your body will have a
chance to remove the debris and you can
say well isn't that going to be when the
cancer comes back because now it can
access its glutamine again yep you're
right and then there's things that need
to be worked out but however now
blocking there are moments in which both
are blocked 100 so you're going to have
these pulse times in which
the cancer it has a very brutal uh
environment to live has no sugar has no
glutamine and it just can't survive
and to that Hans now you know the
difference between a pressure a
consistent unrelenting pressure
a vac and then an intermediate inter an
interval of other negative effects that
would be the blocking the glutamine
there's another
aspect if you listen to me talking when
I said well
you know cancer can survive on
and on an anaerobic environment meaning
without without oxygen and in fact if
it's put in
uh an oxygen environment if it's exposed
to oxygen it does not do very well
so therefore they're using that
information as a third variable to pulse
so they're going to
we're going to or however we want to see
this in this conversation we're going to
inject I'll tell you I'll do that in a
second we're going to inject more oxygen
for this pulsed period of time right so
we're getting more oxygen we're exposing
get cancer cells to more oxygen
which will die
um
due to what they call Ros reactive
oxygenated species
but it's basically exposure of oxygen
that's going on the glutamine
is being blocked
and the glucose has been blocked for a
while okay so now we have these pulses
going on at the same time
and so this Triad
of three aspects so they call the
blocking of oxygen what they call
hyperbaric oxygen treatment so you're
going into a tank think of divers if
you've never seen a they call h-bot have
a barric oxygen treatment
in which you go into that can be a hard
shell so that's what diary is going to
it's a big hard shell and they
put it and they will put 100 oxygen
now we're talking about cancer patients
or they'll dial whatever percentage is
right should be 90 oxygen 10 atmosphere
air or 100 oxygen
but for a particular period of time a
couple hours you will be in a tank and
you'll be breathing under pressure
[Music]
um
O2 and so this is going to get deeper
into your body so now you're doing a
greater exposure of your whole body to
oxygen that's what hyperbaric oxygen
treatments are so you're doing that at
the same time you're on a glutamine
blocker at the same time you've been
monitored to getting into the restricted
a ketogenic
diet and
and that's pretty much the bigger
outline these particular variables and
they can each be monitored and tweaked
and measured look into your blood to
find out you know what is the oxygen
saturation in various parts of your body
of course they can they can double check
see how much of glutamine is being
blocked and
um there is one other aspect
of these three things you just need to
think about these three things
for the ketones for the calorie
restricted ketogenic diet one of the
things this is what Tom
uh co-created was called the
glucose Ketone index and so there's a
ratio as you're starting to shut down
your glucose
which is which is a ratio between the
two but most people
uh on a day-to-day they have nothing to
do with the ketogenic diet their number
to give you a number out of the blue
it's usually between 15 and
and 30. you know that's a normal number
for a normal person that has nothing to
do with the ketogenic diet so as you get
into fasting as we did a group of us we
went into a data seven day fast other
people did seven day fast five days
three days whatever they could
but in taking down their own data of
their glucose and their ketones they
could calculate and there's a calculator
that's online I'll put it in the show
notes and I also put it in the fasting
podcast that it did a while back is that
you get your number and you'll see that
well you where you want to be if you're
a cancer patient you want to be at one
or less it does not according to Tom and
the research they've done and his team
you need to be under one that's the most
therapeutic so if you're one or under
that's where you want to be so it's
interesting in the course of the fast it
took me four days to get to
under one and I did start off I think at
13.
so
um they monitor that so that in itself
can be tuned up to be as to show that
you are definitely in an effective
ketosis right because you're under one
with a glucose Ketone index that's first
thing then you go in for your h-bot
treatments
then you go and pulsed right then you go
in for at the same time your glutamine
pulsed block
and that basically is the strategy so
in in in giving you this overall large
outline
I want you to realize how vital it was
for the body to be able to have this
alternative fuel system that is a not
based on glucose so glucose is the
primitive
is the primitive
fermentation pathway
and so by having an alternative pathway
that we get through fasting that we get
through starving then we get through the
ketogenic diet then we get through their
modified fasting diet
so by having that alternative fuel beta
hydroxybutyrate there's other ketones
but primarily it's about 90 99 of that
um that is used by
the body is an amazing ability to have
and so Tom's reference to cancer is a
metabolic disease not a genetic disease
that is cancer
chasing down a specific cancer mutation
for a specific
cancer
is
only partially successful because you're
looking at the effects it's the process
of the cancer that kicks out all these
mutations and you're chasing one of
these mutations and shutting that down
and that's assuming that that can't that
particular genetic mutation is
targetable by some agent out there that
can stop and inhibit it
so there's a lot of ifs on that that's
why it's variable but when you look at
cancer it's a metabolic disease then
your objective is let's shut down the
fuel that supplies cancer which we just
talked about the glutamine and the
glucose
and then the cancer will just recede
wither away but we have to be careful
about doing this and there's a lot of
details are getting better and better at
so we'll we'll talk about some other
cases that have actually come and been
successful
and uh where this has to go so we're
going to go over this a little more a
little more detail
but know that
when you have your hands around your
ability to be in a ketogenic diet not
always an in perpetuity but as I say as
base camp as your your your home diet
that that is quite a health
accomplishment and you can even
fine-tune that when you want to get into
the glucose Ketone index
entirely up to you it's so important
that is used part of as a main component
for treating cancer as a metabolic
disease
so I'll end tonight there
and hope that I did Babylon too much and
that you understood how important the
ketogenic diet is in the in the context
of treating cancer
and next we'll go on some of the details
we talked about that I've read off the
beginning of this podcast so that when I
do have an interview
with Tom Seyfried and he mentions the
Warburg effect or the Warburg hypothesis
or any of these things people will not
get lost in saying what the heck is he
talking about so we're going to
de-jarganize that conversation in case
it gets to be too much jargon because I
think there's plenty of
takeouts here that you can use for your
own situation and by the way since we're
starting this ahead of time feel free to
send me in questions that you may have
about what is the application
uh the ketogenic diet towards cancer in
name your cancer name your question and
maybe I'll use those when I'm talking to
Tom okay at the very least I'll probably
get back to you or maybe it might even
be another podcast okay with that have a
great night
talk to you next week thanks for
listening for anybody who has any
questions feel free to contact me on our
Facebook group keto naturopath same name
as our podcast I'm open to any questions
and we plot through the good and the bad
the difficult the easy week after week
foreign